---
layout: post
title: The Middle Way
description: "The Middle Way"
headline: "Bushido Inspiring"
categories: personal
tags: 
  - software
  - bushido
  - engineering
image: 
  feature: "website-speed.jpg"
comments: true
mathjax: null
featured: false
published: false
---

I'm a software engineer and crafting software is also my real passion. 

I'm very lucky: I have a wonderful
family, a delightful wife, two beautiful daughters and I do what I like as an everyday job.
Not all of us have this kind of lucky and I'm aware of this.

Sometimes I forget about it and negative thoughts prevail.
This is the reason I decided to write this blog.
All you can find here, is not exactly what it is, but rather what it should be.
Writing is a big step into the road to improve myself.

> There are only two mistakes one can make along the road to truth; not going all the way, and not starting.
> <small><cite title="Gautama Buddha">Gautama Buddha</cite></small>

Working in the real world is much more difficult than what a blog post can show.
There aren't enough words to explain the complexity of working with a lot of people,
a lot of different personalities and quite different minds.
Tecnical stuff is pretty easy: learn, try, adopt, think, improve, restart.
Dealing with people is much more difficult and working in the world of connection and globalization is complex.
Every engineer is striken by a lot of tasks, issues, requests, time/resource constraints and conflicts.
Our mind is full of thoughts, all streaming at the same time.
In all this, you have to look for harmony in your own home and family.
So in the end, a lot of us have a disruptive shutdown: call it depression, exhaustion, breakdown or whatever.
Maybe your shutdown is a violent event or maybe is just a short period.
We need to put organization in our life to restart: be simple, be minimal, do less.

The last year I read a nice book that helped me to understand how to deal with myself.
The name of the book is ["Zen Programmer"](http://www.zenprogrammer.org/) by Christian Grobmeier
and it is a nice work that I really suggest to read.
I am fascinated by oriental phylosophies.
Buddhism and Confucianism theorized about the human
behaviour for centuries. They cover human issues to 360 degrees.
I discovered Hagakure and the Bushido. I read about samurai codes and values.
I read about chivalry code. I read about people and psycology.
I found Leo Babauta's [Zen Habits](http://zenhabits.net/).

I put it all together returning on me.

> I am a software engineer and [I do care about my work](http://zenhabits.net/care/).<small>Me</small>

When we are working, in every kind of job, all of us are servant.
At best, you are your own servant.
We are used to have targets and missions.
However the target or the mission is not the end point of your job.

> The road of life twists and turns and no two directions are ever the same.
> Yet our lessons come from the journey, not the destination.
> <small><cite title="Don Williams Jr.">Don Williams Jr.</cite></small>

The important thing is the journey.
So we have to learn and work hard to improve ourself.
There are multiple colors in the world: not only black and not only white.

>It is needed for us to see and appreciate all the nuances.
>The middle way is the key.
>Do not be strict. Do not be careless.
>Do not be stubborn. Do not be submissive.
>Do not close your eyes to the world.
>Listen. 
>Care.

This is the difference between crashing into things and beeing part of them.

I will talk about the important principles to respect to achieve this.
They came from old times and big wisdom. The 7 virtues of the way of the coder are
pretty much the same of bushido:

1- Morality (aka do the right thing)
2- Courage (aka be positive, trust yourself and lead your mates)
3- Benevolence (aka compassion)
4- Respect (aka chain of command is nothing without respect)
5- Honesty (aka lies comes with a big price)
6- Honor (aka untill the end with all yourself)
7- Loyalty (aka)

> "If one is overly strict, his subordinates will become untrustworthy. If he over-trusts, his subordinates will become unruly."
> <small><cite title="Hagakure">Hagakure</cite></small>



